Update doc on resources (#3579)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: sites/friday/src/manage-resources/resource-init.md

---
title: Resource initialization
description: Learn how resources are allocated by default upon first deployment, and how you can define a resource initialization strategy that better fits your needs.
weight: -200
keywords:
  - "resources"
  - "flexible resources"
  - "CPU"
  - "RAM"
  - "disk storage"
  - "horizontal scaling"
  - "vertical scaling"
  - "scaling"
---

When you first deploy your {{% vendor/name %}} project, and whenever you add a new app or service,
{{% vendor/name %}} allocates the following default resources to every container:

| Resource type               | Amount |
| --------------------------- | ----------- |
| CPU                         | 0.5 |

> | RAM                         | Depends on the [container profile](#advanced-container-profiles). |

Reviewer: I think the link here should be `/manage-resources/adjust-resources.html#advanced-container-profiles` (or maybe to the `.md` extension, not sure how it works)

Author: Fixed

| Disk size (only applicable if the app or service requires a disk)                   | 512 MB |

> If you don't want to use those default resources, you can define a different [resource initialization strategy](#resource-initialization-strategies).

Reviewer: I think the link here should be `#define-a-resource-initialization-strategy`

Author: Fixed

> You can also [adjust those resources](#configure-resources) after your project or new container has been deployed.

Reviewer: I think the link here should be `/manage-resources/adjust-resources.html` (or maybe to the `.md` extension, not sure how it works)

Author: Fixed

For information on costs related to resource usage, see the [{{% vendor/name %}} pricing page](https://upsun.com/pricing/).
Note that you can [keep an eye on those costs](/manage-resources/resource-billing.md) in the Console.

## Define a resource initialization strategy

You can define which strategy {{% vendor/name %}} uses to allocate resources
when you first deploy your project or add a new container.
The following strategies are available:

| Strategy | Description |
| ---------| ----------- |
| `default`  | Initializes the new containers using the [{{% vendor/name %}} default resources](/manage-resources/resource-init.md).</br>This is the strategy that applies when you first deploy your project or new container, unless you explicitly set another strategy.  |

> | `manual`   | With this strategy, the first deployment fails and you need to configure resources manually through [the Console](#adjust-your-project-resources), or using `resources:set` in the CLI. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `manual`   | With this strategy, the first deployment fails and you need to configure resources manually through [the Console](/manage-resources/adjust-resources.md), or using `resources:set` in the CLI. |
```

```bash
git push upsun -o resources.init=minimum
```

{{< /note >}}

Note that you can set a different resource initialization strategy for each of your deployments.

<--->

+++
title= With a source integration
+++

If you're using a [source integration](/integrations/_index.md),
to define which strategy {{% vendor/name %}} uses to allocate resources when you first deploy your project or add a new container,
use the `--resources-init` flag.

{{< note >}}

Once a resource initialization strategy is set for your source integration,
it applies to **all** the deployments you launch through that source integration.

{{< /note >}}

To specify a resource initialization strategy when you [create your source integration](/integrations/source/_index.md),
include the `--resources-init` flag in your source integration options.
For example, if you [set up a GitHub integration](), use the following options:

```bash
platform integration:add \
  --project {{< variable "PROJECT_ID" >}} \
  --type github \
  --repository {{< variable "OWNER/REPOSITORY" >}} \
  --token {{< variable "GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN" >}} \
  --base-url {{< variable "GITHUB_URL" >}}

>   --resources-init= {{< variable "INITIALIZATION_STRATEGY" >}}

Reviewer: @AnouckColson, I would remove the `=` here, to use the same pattern as the other options above.

Author: Ah yes, that's a bad copy-paste on my part

Author: Fixed!
